Today we'll talk about wild cards wild cards basically are another name for regular expressions and
regular expressions allow you to look for strings which contain certain substrings or words or text
or letters or other things that you are looking for in that string.
So you don't have to specify an exact string and you can match lots of different strings that fit your
certain criteria.
So let's have a look at that on an example and it will make more sense as we go along.
This time we're going to work with the other table that we have which is list of orders so let's get
rid of all of this and we'll type in select star from list of orders.
And if we select everything we just execute that now you will see that we've got Order ID order date
Customer Name country.
And so for instance let's say we're interested in any order ID that has us at the start.
So any order ID that starts with.
Yes that's the ones that we want to bring up.
So how do we do that.
Well in this case we will type in where as we're used to then Order ID.
So square brackets Order ID.
And this is one of the second Sinatras where you need square brackets because there's a space in the
name of your column.
And now we're going to say like so we can use equals in this case because we're using a wildcard we
need to use the other option which is like.
And here we will compare to wild cards so we want.
I was trying to start off.
Yes.
And then after Yes we don't mind how many characters they are what they are we just want to make sure
that the string size vs and to do that.
After Yes here we just need to type in a percentage sign.
So the percentage side is a wild card for any number of characters.
And now if we execute this you will notice that only the rows that have an order ID starting with S
have been returned.
Similarly we can do the same thing for the orders.
That's right.
And if we run that now.
So I just clicked a five on my keyboard.
If we were that now we have only the orders that start with T.
So that's one of the wildcards that you'll be using.
You can put the percentage sign at the start in the middle at the end of your string.
Let's have a look at another example let's say we want all of the countries that have a letter E inside
of the name of the country.
So let's type in here percentage.
So we don't we don't care how many symbols they are before that.
Then we need an e.
And then another percentage so we don't care how many symbols are after the Super exit.
That now you will see here that only countries with a letter E inside their name have been brought up
in this.
And it doesn't really matter if that is at the very end.
That's OK.
So that's how you use the percentage sign.
Now I'll show you one more wild card that you might be interested in.
I never use it in my work but there might be a case when you might sometime need to use it.
The wildcard is an underscore and the underscore stands for exactly one character.
For instance let's look for all the people all the customers whose second letter in their name is and
a for instance.
So here we're going to change this to and like and then we will change this as underscore E and then
a percentage.
So we want to make sure there's one character then there's an E and then there is however many characters
we don't really mind.
So if we execute that you will see that there's Peter here.
Herbert can all of these names their second letter in this string in the name is an E.
And that's exactly what we were after.
So there you go that's how you use wild cards.
You can only use them with strings.
Make sure use the like operator because if that equals then it won't work equal sign takes this stuff
literally and it doesn't look for wild cards it looks for exactly this string underscore percentage
.
So make sure use the like when you're working with wild wild cards and it allows you to search for elements
of strings